after you've decided how long you want
the door to be
break out the tape measure and mark the
top and bottom of the door
use a straightedge to finish that line
across the tain make it easier to cut on
I also like to keep things even easier
for myself so I'll use a razor knife and
score the line just to make sure that my
blade on my cutting tool stays on target
he used a journal on the lowest power
setting to cut the frame away just lay
it on the tank and the groove and let
the weight of the dremel do the cutting
for you the next part has sound you want
to make sure you don't cut the glass I
just wanted you to hear what it sounds
like when this total hits glass now it's
time to get mad at the tank it takes a
little bit of effort to work this
silicone free and be able to break the
frame off but keep at it and it'll
eventually come apart and yet just don't
break the glass in the process once the
frame is off it should look something
similar to this I like to test fit
things before I glue or silicone
anything down so here's the glass in
place prior to the silicone and then
take it out and run a bead of silicone
like this the tape is to catch any
excess silicone from oozing out
underneath the glass then lay the glass
down on the silicone and press it firmly
in place I placed a piece of wood on the
glass to keep pressure on it while the
silicone cure
I'm using two twelve inch acrylic piano
hinges I got two latches to secure the
door when it's closed in a knob to put
on the glass so I can open the door
easier
all the acrylic pieces are going to be
glued onto the tank with epoxy so I'm
going to test fit these hinges make sure
that they fit right I don't have to do
any more trimming before I start
applying the epoxy to the acrylic once
I'm satisfied with the test fit I'll
remove everything and scrape all the
silicone off of the glass and clean the
glass with a alcohol-based cleaner prior
to applying the epoxy
now it's time to attach the hinges to
the tank we'll use a two part epoxy make
sure you use rubber gloves for this step
I didn't record the actual glueing part
just because I wanted to make sure I got
it right but I will show you what the
hinges look like once they were epoxy to
the tank and here they are
it'll take 24 to 48 hours for the epoxy
to be fully cured we'll wait until then
to epoxy the glass door to the other
side of the hinge and then we'll be
almost done the hardest part was finding
the right stuff to brace the door up
here's the door in place with the epoxy
curing next is the screen here's the
screen frame kit I bought at the
hardware store and I used a dremel to
cut it I didn't stay on the lowest
setting which it is there once all the
cutting was done I did a final test fit
to make sure that it fit good and it did
so spray paint I wanted to paint it
black so it match the frame of the tank
right here is the screen that I use it's
a fiberglass insect screening got it at
the same box store and there cut it big
so that it fits good and then you can
trim the excess off and this is what it
looked like with the paint dry in the
screen in place now it's time to drill
the hole in the tank
I used plumber's putty to create a
reservoir to pour water into to keep the
drill bit cool and then here's the
diamond-tipped hole saw that I use to
cut through that and here's the finished
hole I didn't record me drill in the
hole because I couldn't get the camera
set up at a good angle and this is the
finished product here is a 40 B that I
converted to a vertical tank I think it
came out pretty good there's some things
I would do different if I had it to do
over again but overall pretty pleased
anything's watching our how-to again
here's a list of the materials we use
for this project
you